# Stanford ICME Summer Workshop Series Intro to Statistics 
This repository is for the Stanford 2023 ICME Summer Workshop Series Intro to Statistics Course. 

## Course Description

This workshop covers the fundamentals of statistics, which powers modern day machine learning, deep learning and data science. This course will provide an overview of the key methodologies of statistics, which is also known as the science of learning from data.  The course will be introductory and does not require a background in statistics. We will cover basic techniques on how to visualize data, sample and conduct experiments. We then will detail statistical approximations including mean and standard deviation estimates from data, the normal approximation, and central limit theorem, as well as common probability rules and distributions for different types of data. We will demonstrate the important concepts and pitfalls of regression as well as regression error analysis including the bias-variance tradeoff, and how to do inference with confidence intervals and tests of hypotheses. While the course requires no prior programming, programming examples are provided in R to give participants hands-on experience with applying concepts for data analysis. By the end of this workshop, participants will have developed a foundational understanding and hands-on experience with the statistical fundamentals behind Big Data and data science, which will be important for the subsequent machine learning related workshops.

## Instructor Bio

[Danielle Maddix Robinson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielle-maddix-robinson/) is a Senior Applied Scientist in the Machine Learning Forecasting Group within AWS AI Labs. She graduated with her PhD in Computational and Mathematical Engineering from the Institute of Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) at Stanford University. She was advised by Professor Margot Gerritsen and developed robust numerical methods to remove spurious temporal oscillations in the degenerate Generalized Porous Medium Equation.  She is passionate about the underlying numerical analysis, linear algebra and optimization methods behind numerical PDEs and applying these techniques to deep learning.  She joined AWS in 2018 shortly after graduating, and has been working on developing statistical and deep learning models for time series forecasting. In this past year, she has been leading the research initiative on developing models for physics-constrained machine learning for scientific computing. In particular, she has researched how to apply ideas from numerical methods, e.g., finite volume schemes, to improve the accuracy of black-box ML models for ODEs and PDEs with applications to epidemiology, aerodynamics, ocean and climate models. 
